# Translations
#
# - Edit each 'Translation' subsection below.
# - Do not edit 'Source Text' subsections.
# - Choose UTF-8 whenever you have to select a character encoding.
# - You may use any text editor.
# - You may split long sentences with single new lines.
# - You may separate paragraphs by leaving a blank line between them.
# - You may include comments.
#   - What follows an octothorpe (#) is ignored until the next line.
#   - An escaped octothorpe (\#) is treated as normal text.

:: Identifier

expostats:tool1:translations:fr

:: Language Code

fr

:: Language

Français

:: Source Language

English

:: Translations: 449ff93: Source Text

The current situation is %s.

:: Translations: 449ff93: Translation

La situation est actuellement %s.

:: Translations: 82cb390: Source Text

Ogden, Trevor, and Jérôme Lavoué. %s, %s, Journal of Occupational and
Environmental Hygiene, Volume 9, Issue 4, 2012, Pages D63-D70.

:: Translations: 82cb390: Translation

Ogden, Trevor, et Jérôme Lavoué. %s, %s, Journal of Occupational and
Environmental Hygiene, Volume 9, Numéro 4, 2012, Pages D63-D70.

:: Translations: 9add3cf: Source Text

Risk Meter

:: Translations: 9add3cf: Translation

Indicateur de risque

:: Translations: dbab5ea: Source Text

Below the OEL:

:: Translations: dbab5ea: Translation

Inférieurs à la VLE:

:: Translations: 10c4b97: Source Text

You may also consult the scientific report of the Webexpo project. It includes
a large introductory section focusing on industrial hygiene statistics.

:: Translations: 10c4b97: Translation

Vous pouvez également consulter le rapport scientifique du projet Webexpo. Il
comprend une section introductive consacrée aux statistiques de l'hygiène
industrielle.

:: Translations: 78552d4: Source Text

Default Background:

:: Translations: 78552d4: Translation

Arrière-plan par défaut:

:: Translations: 0cdc87d: Source Text

%s and %s currently maintains Tool 1. Ununoctium is an external collaborator
working on the design and implementation of newer versions greater than or
equal to 4.0.0. It oversees non-scientific components of the web application on
behalf of Jérôme Lavoué.

:: Translations: 0cdc87d: Translation

%s et %s maintiennent actuellement Tool 1. Ununoctium est un collaborateur
externe qui travaille sur la conception et l'implémentation des versions
supérieures ou égales à 4.0.0. Il conçoit les composantes non-scientifiques de
l'application web sous la supervision de Jérôme Lavoué.

:: Translations: ad77e09: Source Text

Measurements can be censored as long as they use the same units as other
non-censored measurements.

:: Translations: ad77e09: Translation

Les mesures peuvent être censurées si elles utilisent les mêmes unités que les
autres mesures non censurées.

:: Translations: 46750d4: Source Text

More languages are coming soon.

:: Translations: 46750d4: Translation

D'autres langues seront bientôt disponibles.

:: Translations: fdd3398: Source Text

Email Address

:: Translations: fdd3398: Translation

Adresse électronique

:: Translations: e0147d1: Source Text

The point estimate of the geometric mean is equal to %s.

:: Translations: e0147d1: Translation

L'estimation ponctuelle de la moyenne géométrique est égale à %s.

:: Translations: df83adb: Source Text

Arithmetic Mean

:: Translations: df83adb: Translation

Moyenne arithmétique

:: Translations: bda8863: Source Text

The %s, %s, and %s about measurement data interpretation are very similar but
aggregate the %s and %s categories as %4$s.

:: Translations: bda8863: Translation

Les %s, %s et %s concernant l'interprétation des données de mesure sont très
similaires mais regroupent les catégories %s et %s en une seule (%4$s).

:: Translations: a632e97: Source Text

Number of Obversations

:: Translations: a632e97: Translation

Nombre d'obversations

:: Translations: 7034018: Source Text

Measurements

:: Translations: 7034018: Translation

Mesures

:: Translations: 82332ff: Source Text

Jérôme Lavoué, Lawrence Joseph, Tracy L. Kirkham, France Labrèche, Gautier
Mater, and Frédéric Clerc (2020). %s (Report R-1065). IRSST.

:: Translations: 82332ff: Translation

Jérôme Lavoué, Lawrence Joseph, Tracy L. Kirkham, France Labrèche, Gautier
Mater et Frédéric Clerc (2020). %s (Report R-1065). IRSST.

:: Translations: d033ecc: Source Text

This plot shows the probability distribution of the uncertainty around the
selected percentile. It shows the probability that its true value is (1) below
1% of the OEL, (2) between 1% and 10% of the OEL, (3) between 10% and 50% of
the OEL, (4) between 50% and 100% of the OEL, and (5) greater than the OEL.
This is based on the classification adopted by AIHA. The red column represents
the probability of an overexposure. The latter should be lower than the
threshold (black dashed line).

:: Translations: d033ecc: Translation

Ce graphique montre la distribution de probabilité de l'incertitude autour de
du percentile sélectionné. Il montre la probabilité que sa valeur réelle soit
(1) inférieure à 1% de la VLE, (2) comprise entre 1% et 10% de la VLE, (3)
comprise entre 10% et 50% de la VLE, (4) comprise entre 50% et 100% de la VLE,
et (5) supérieure à la VLE. Cette classification est basée sur celle adoptée
par l'AIHA. La colonne rouge représente la probabilité d'une surexposition.
Celle-ci doit être inférieure au seuil (ligne noire en pointillés).

:: Translations: 7d60ad6: Source Text

tolerable

:: Translations: 7d60ad6: Translation

tolérable

:: Translations: 4cc6c29: Source Text

Yes. Below are four videos made by the authors of Expostats. The last two stem
from a 6-hour-long professional development course (PDC) made in 2024 for the
Indonesian Industrial Hygiene Association (IIHA).

:: Translations: 4cc6c29: Translation

Voici quatre vidéos réalisées par les auteurs d'Expostats. Les deux dernières
sont issues d'un cours de développement professionnel d'une durée de 6 heures
réalisé en 2024 pour « l'Indonesian Industrial Hygiene Association » (IIHA).

:: Translations: dc74f5c: Source Text

This plot shows the probability distribution of the uncertainty around the
exceedance fraction. It shows the probability that its true value is (1) below
%s, (2) between %1$s and %2$s, and (3) greater than %s. The red column
represents the probability of an overexposure. The latter should be lower than
the threshold (black dashed line).

:: Translations: dc74f5c: Translation

Ce graphique montre la distribution de probabilité de l'incertitude autour de
la fraction de dépassement. Il indique la probabilité que sa valeur réelle soit
(1) inférieure à %s, (2) comprise entre %1$s et %2$s, et (3) supérieure à %s.
La colonne rouge représente la probabilité de surexposition. Celle-ci doit être
inférieure au seuil (ligne noire en pointillés).

:: Translations: 9616619: Source Text

Do not put a blank character (tab, space, etc.) before and after special
characters used to indicate how a measurement is censored. See below for more
information.

:: Translations: 9616619: Translation

Ne mettez pas de caractère vide (tabulation, espace, etc.) avant et après les
caractères spéciaux indiquant qu'une mesure est censurée. Voir ci-dessous pour
plus d'informations.

:: Translations: 176669b: Source Text

Select a criterion for what is considered overexposure (for example, the %s
percentile being greater than or equal to the OEL).

:: Translations: 176669b: Translation

Sélectionnez un critère pour déterminer ce qui est considéré comme une
surexposition (par exemple, le %s percentile supérieur ou égal à la VLE).

:: Translations: a4cd560: Source Text

Maximal Acceptable Exceedance:

:: Translations: a4cd560: Translation

Dépassement maximal acceptable:

:: Translations: ad1e98e: Source Text

OEL

:: Translations: ad1e98e: Translation

VLE

:: Translations: 641f765: Source Text

This risk meter shows the probability of the exposure being too high when
compared to the OEL. The red zone indicates a problematic exposure.

:: Translations: 641f765: Translation

Cet indicateur de risque montre la probabilité que l'exposition soit trop
élevée par rapport à la VLE. La zone rouge indique une exposition
problématique.

:: Translations: bddbd7f: Source Text

acceptable

:: Translations: bddbd7f: Translation

acceptable

:: Translations: 6489309: Source Text

Use this value to set the percentile of the exposure distribution that will be
compared to the OEL. It must be between 0% and 100%. The traditional default
value is 95%.

:: Translations: 6489309: Translation

Cette valeur permet de définir le percentile de la distribution de l'exposition
qui sera comparé à la VLE. Elle doit être comprise entre 0% et 100%. La valeur
traditionnelle par défaut est 95%.

:: Translations: 73dff8f: Source Text

Can measurements be censored?

:: Translations: 73dff8f: Translation

Les mesures peuvent-elles être censurées?

:: Translations: 4528da3: Source Text

Acceptable Sample

:: Translations: 4528da3: Translation

Échantillon acceptable

:: Translations: 057d849: Source Text

Use this value to change the global background color.

:: Translations: 057d849: Translation

Cette valeur permet de modifier la couleur de l'arrière-plan principal.

:: Translations: 5dc95f8: Source Text

Usage

:: Translations: 5dc95f8: Translation

Utilisation

:: Translations: 6192e8e: Source Text

This plot shows the probability distribution of the uncertainty around the
arithmetic mean. It shows the probability that its true value is (1) below 1%
of the OEL, (2) between 1% and 10% of the OEL, (3) between 10% and 50% of the
OEL, (4) between 50% and 100% of the OEL, and (5) greater than the OEL. This is
based on the classification adopted by AIHA. The red column represents the
probability of an overexposure. The latter should be lower than the threshold
(black dashed line).

:: Translations: 6192e8e: Translation

Ce graphique montre la distribution de probabilité de l'incertitude autour de
la moyenne arithmétique. Il montre la probabilité que sa valeur réelle soit (1)
inférieure à 1% de la VLE, (2) comprise entre 1% et 10% de la VLE, (3) comprise
entre 10% et 50% de la VLE, (4) comprise entre 50% et 100% de la VLE, et (5)
supérieure à la VLE. Cette classification est basée sur celle adoptée par
l'AIHA. La colonne rouge représente la probabilité d'une surexposition.
Celle-ci doit être inférieure au seuil (ligne noire en pointillés).

:: Translations: 127c649: Source Text

Use this value as an acceptable proportion of exposures above the OEL. It must
be between 0% and 100%. The traditional default value is 5%.

:: Translations: 127c649: Translation

Utilisez cette valeur comme proportion acceptable d'expositions supérieures à
la VLE. Elle doit être comprise entre 0% et 100%. La valeur traditionnelle par
défaut est de 5%.

:: Translations: cebe5c4: Source Text

Measurement Index

:: Translations: cebe5c4: Translation

Indice de mesure

:: Translations: b66eca7: Source Text

The points above should follow a straight line. Random deviations from it are
expected. However, significant deviations suggest that the data may have to be
split into distinct subsets, or that some outliers must be investigated.

:: Translations: b66eca7: Translation

Les points ci-dessus devraient suivre une ligne droite. Des écarts aléatoires
par rapport à cette ligne sont prévisibles. Toutefois, des écarts importants
suggèrent que les données doivent être divisées en sous-ensembles distincts ou
que certaines valeurs aberrantes doivent être étudiées.

:: Translations: 6863c44: Source Text

Clear

:: Translations: 6863c44: Translation

Effacer

:: Translations: 179eb27: Source Text

There must be one value per line.

:: Translations: 179eb27: Translation

Il ne doit y avoir qu'une seule valeur par ligne.

:: Translations: a2b22df: Source Text

What are modes?

:: Translations: a2b22df: Translation

Qu'est-ce qu'un mode?

:: Translations: 7e85759: Source Text

Parameters

:: Translations: 7e85759: Translation

Paramètres

:: Translations: 0524962: Source Text

Mode

:: Translations: 0524962: Translation

Mode

:: Translations: be4154f: Source Text

It builds on a recognized risk assessment framework endorsed by leading
institutions, including the American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA), the
British Occupational Hygiene Society (BOHS), the Dutch Society for Occupational
Hygiene (NVVA), the French Institut national de recherche et de sécurité
(INRS), the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), and
the European Committee for Standardization (CEN).

:: Translations: be4154f: Translation

Il s'appuie sur un cadre d'évaluation des risques reconnu et approuvé par des
institutions de premier plan, notamment « l'American Industrial Hygiene
Association » (AIHA), la « British Occupational Hygiene Society » (BOHS), la «
Dutch Society for Occupational Hygiene » (NVVA), l'Institut national de
recherche et de sécurité (INRS), le « National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health » (NIOSH) et le Comité européen de normalisation (CEN).

:: Translations: 3eba509: Source Text

Risk Assessment

:: Translations: 3eba509: Translation

Évaluation du risque

:: Translations: 378fb16: Source Text

General

:: Translations: 378fb16: Translation

Généralités

:: Translations: 426cfe3: Source Text

Risk assessment based on the arithmetic mean relies on the availability of a
long-term averaged OEL (LTA-OEL in the AIHA terminology) representing a
cumulative burden threshold. Most current OELs are not created as LTA-OEL.

Despite an annoying lack of precise definition by most organizations, they
should be most often viewed as thresholds to be exceeded as rarely as possible.
Some authors have suggested using one-tenth of the OEL as a practical LTA-OEL
when assessing risk using the arithmetic mean.

:: Translations: 426cfe3: Translation

L'évaluation du risque basée sur la moyenne arithmétique repose sur la
disponibilité d'une VLE moyenne à long terme (« OEL-LTA » dans la terminologie
de l'AIHA) représentant un seuil de charge cumulative. La plupart des VLE
actuelles ne sont pas des VLE moyennes à long terme.

En dépit d'un manque gênant de définition précise de la part de la plupart des
organisations, les VLE devraient être le plus souvent considérées comme des
seuils à dépasser aussi rarement que possible. Certains auteurs ont suggéré
d'utiliser un dixième de la VLE comme VLE moyenne à long terme lors de
l'évaluation du risque à l'aide de la moyenne arithmétique.

:: Translations: 04339f1: Source Text

Measurements are entered in the Measurements text area of the Calculation
Parameters sidebar. Failing to follow the following rules below will inevitably
lead to undefined behavior.

:: Translations: 04339f1: Translation

Les mesures sont saisies dans la zone de texte Mesures de la barre latérale
Paramètres de calcul. Le non-respect des règles suivantes induit inévitablement
un comportement indéfini.

:: Translations: 80d1a60: Source Text

Exceedance Fraction Category

:: Translations: 80d1a60: Translation

Catégorie de la fraction de dépassement

:: Translations: fa75cdd: Source Text

Proportion Greater than OEL

:: Translations: fa75cdd: Translation

Proportion supérieure à la VLE

:: Translations: 632ebd0: Source Text

Sample Statistic

:: Translations: 632ebd0: Translation

Statistique d'échantillonnage

:: Translations: 4c4b9ae: Source Text

If the overexposure risk is betwen %s and %s, it is moderate. The situation is
controlled, but with a limited safety margin.

:: Translations: 4c4b9ae: Translation

Si le risque de surexposition se situe entre %s et %s, il est modéré. La
situation est maîtrisée, mais avec une marge de sécurité limitée.

:: Translations: ad9a641: Source Text

Who created Tool 1?

:: Translations: ad9a641: Translation

Qui a créé Tool 1?

:: Translations: 77a3276: Source Text

Single plot (with uncertainty)

:: Translations: 77a3276: Translation

Graphique unique (avec incertitude)

:: Translations: fbc45b3: Source Text

This depends on the chosen panel.

:: Translations: fbc45b3: Translation

Cela dépend du panneau choisi.

:: Translations: 7e21f78: Source Text

Use this value to change the displayed plot. See the footer below for
additional details on it.

:: Translations: 7e21f78: Translation

Utilisez cette valeur pour modifier le graphique affiché. Consultez le pied de
page ci-dessous pour plus de détails sur celui-ci.

:: Translations: 9578728: Source Text

All rights reserved.

:: Translations: 9578728: Translation

Tous droits réservés.

:: Translations: 380f931: Source Text

Submit

:: Translations: 380f931: Translation

Soumettre

:: Translations: af71ace: Source Text

Interval censored measurements are imputed as the mid-range.

:: Translations: af71ace: Translation

Les mesures censurées par intervalle sont imputées au milieu de l'intervalle.

:: Translations: b817814: Source Text

Above the OEL:

:: Translations: b817814: Translation

Supérieurs à la VLE:

:: Translations: f542f1c: Source Text

Extended mode has more inputs and shows additional results split into multiple
Statistical Inference panels.

:: Translations: f542f1c: Translation

Le mode Étendu comporte plus d'entrées et affiche des résultats supplémentaires
répartis dans plusieurs panneaux d'inférence statistique.

:: Translations: 1d671e4: Source Text

Overexposure is defined as the %s percentile being greater than or equal to the
OEL.

:: Translations: 1d671e4: Translation

Le critère de surexposition est défini comme étant étant le %s percentile
supérieur ou égal à la VLE.

:: Translations: 5fafea5: Source Text

How long should I wait for the results?

:: Translations: 5fafea5: Translation

Combien de temps dois-je attendre pour obtenir les résultats?

:: Translations: 8c8796c: Source Text

Can plots be expanded?

:: Translations: 8c8796c: Translation

Les graphiques peuvent-ils être agrandis?

:: Translations: e80025a: Source Text

Sequential Plot

:: Translations: e80025a: Translation

Graphique séquentiel

:: Translations: d24b3ce: Source Text

This plot shows the probability density function of the estimated distribution
of exposures. The OEL is shown as a dotted red line and the point estimate of
the arithmetic mean as a continuous green line.

:: Translations: d24b3ce: Translation

Ce graphique montre la fonction de densité de probabilité de la distribution
estimée des expositions. La VLE est représentée par une ligne rouge en
pointillés et l'estimation ponctuelle de la moyenne arithmétique par une ligne
verte continue.

:: Translations: c73ed1b: Source Text

Credible intervals are shown in square brackets.

:: Translations: c73ed1b: Translation

Les intervalles de crédibilité sont indiqués entre crochets.

:: Translations: 930bac6: Source Text

How can I generate results?

:: Translations: 930bac6: Translation

Comment puis-je obtenir des résultats?

:: Translations: 81fb05e: Source Text

Value

:: Translations: 81fb05e: Translation

Valeur

:: Translations: f533761: Source Text

Exceedance Plot

:: Translations: f533761: Translation

Graphique de la fraction de dépassement

:: Translations: 511580d: Source Text

Statistical Inference

:: Translations: 511580d: Translation

Inférence statistique

:: Translations: 43057f4: Source Text

Role

:: Translations: 43057f4: Translation

Rôle

:: Translations: 305b9f6: Source Text

Coefficient of Variation

:: Translations: 305b9f6: Translation

Coefficient de variation

:: Translations: 24a1b71: Source Text

Median

:: Translations: 24a1b71: Translation

Médiane

:: Translations: 3976eaa: Source Text

The Bayesian models and data interpretation procedures used by Tool 1 are
derived from current best practices in industrial hygiene, as reviewed in the
the following scientifice paper. Further details and references are also
available on %s.

:: Translations: 3976eaa: Translation

Les modèles bayésiens et les procédures d'interprétation des données utilisés
par Tool 1 sont dérivés des meilleures pratiques actuelles en matière d'hygiène
industrielle, telles qu'elles sont examinées dans le document scientifique
suivant. D'autres détails et références sont également disponibles sur %s.

:: Translations: 2f456d9: Source Text

The 70%% upper confidence limit is equal to %s.

:: Translations: 2f456d9: Translation

La limite supérieure pour un niveau de confiance de 70%% est égale à %s.

:: Translations: 6298302: Source Text

Submit all parameters and start Bayesian calculations.

:: Translations: 6298302: Translation

Soumettre tous les paramètres et exécuter les calculs bayésiens.

:: Translations: f6667d4: Source Text

Flasks (exposures)

:: Translations: f6667d4: Translation

Flacons (expositions)

:: Translations: a744f49: Source Text

Occupational Exposure Limit (OEL):

:: Translations: a744f49: Translation

Valeur limite d'exposition (VLE):

:: Translations: 03c33e5: Source Text

Updating. Please wait.

:: Translations: 03c33e5: Translation

Mise à jour en cours. Veuillez patienter.

:: Translations: 745ebd1: Source Text

Calculation Parameters

:: Translations: 745ebd1: Translation

Paramètres de calcul

:: Translations: 00b437c: Source Text

Use this value as a probability for the credible intervals around parameter
estimates. It must be between 0% and 100%. The default value is set equal to
90%. The credible interval is the Bayesian equivalent of the confidence
interval.

:: Translations: 00b437c: Translation

Utilisez cette valeur comme probabilité pour les intervalles de crédibilité des
estimations des paramètres. Elle doit être comprise entre 0% et 100%. La valeur
par défaut est égale à 90%. L'intervalle de crédibilité est l'équivalent
bayésien de l'intervalle de confiance.

:: Translations: 79fb413: Source Text

Clear the measurement dataset. Doing so does not automatically update the
current results. Click on the Submit button when you are ready to do so.

:: Translations: 79fb413: Translation

Effacer l'ensemble des données de mesure. Cette opération ne met pas
automatiquement à jour les résultats actuels. Cliquez sur le bouton Soumettre
lorsque vous êtes prêt à le faire.

:: Translations: 4f6392c: Source Text

How should I interpret these results?

:: Translations: 4f6392c: Translation

Comment interpréter les résultats?

:: Translations: 0595dc0: Source Text

The point estimate of the exceedance fraction is equal to %s.

:: Translations: 0595dc0: Translation

L'estimation ponctuelle de la fraction de dépassement est égale à %s.

:: Translations: 1a6a68b: Source Text

Is the approach of Tool 1 recognized and peer-reviewed?

:: Translations: 1a6a68b: Translation

L'approche de Tool 1 est-elle reconnue et examinée par des pairs?

:: Translations: 38210f7: Source Text

Add a lower than or equal sign before each measurement censored to the left
(e.g. <30.0).

:: Translations: 38210f7: Translation

Ajouter un signe plus petit ou égal devant chaque mesure censurée à gauche (par
exemple, <30.0).

:: Translations: 8fc2a6a: Source Text

Data Interpretation for One Similar Exposure Group

:: Translations: 8fc2a6a: Translation

Interprétation de données pour un groupe d'exposition similaire

:: Translations: 7b55099: Source Text

Use this value to change the color of exposures that are above the OEL.

:: Translations: 7b55099: Translation

Cette valeur permet de modifier la couleur des expositions supérieures à la
VLE.

:: Translations: abe3699: Source Text

Acceptable

:: Translations: abe3699: Translation

Acceptable

:: Translations: 22d0b63: Source Text

This plot shows the probability density function of the estimated distribution
of exposures. The OEL is shown as a dotted red line and the point estimate of
the selected percentile as a continuous blue line.

:: Translations: 22d0b63: Translation

Ce graphique montre la fonction de densité de probabilité de la distribution
estimée des expositions. La VLE est représentée par une ligne rouge en
pointillés et l'estimation ponctuelle du percentile sélectionné par une ligne
bleue continue.

:: Translations: 92193c3: Source Text

What is Tool 1?

:: Translations: 92193c3: Translation

Qu'est-ce que Tool 1?

:: Translations: 10ef3a6: Source Text

Quantiles (Lognormal Distribution)

:: Translations: 10ef3a6: Translation

Quantiles (distribution log-normale)

:: Translations: e3d5355: Source Text

Percentiles

:: Translations: e3d5355: Translation

Percentiles

:: Translations: 532bf12: Source Text

> OEL

:: Translations: 532bf12: Translation

> VLE

:: Translations: bf93329: Source Text

You may customize the user interface by using the menus and buttons located in
the title bar of Tool 1 (in the top right corner). All parameters may be
changed anytime on-the-fly throughout the session.

:: Translations: bf93329: Translation

Vous pouvez personnaliser l'interface utilisateur en utilisant les menus et les
boutons situés dans la barre de titre de Tool 1 (dans le coin supérieur droit
de l'application). Tous les paramètres peuvent être modifiés à tout moment au
cours de la session.

:: Translations: 1277d46: Source Text

French guidelines

:: Translations: 1277d46: Translation

lignes directrices françaises

:: Translations: d9fe05c: Source Text

Use this value as the maximal overexposure risk. It must be between 0% and
100%. It represents the maximal probability that the overexposure criterion is
met. Above this value, the situation requires remedial action. While 5% is the
traditional chosen value, recent guidelines suggest using 30% instead.

:: Translations: d9fe05c: Translation

Utilisez cette valeur comme risque maximal de surexposition. Elle doit être
comprise entre 0% et 100%. Elle représente la probabilité maximale que le
critère de surexposition soit satisfait. Au-delà de cette valeur, la situation
exige des mesures correctives. Bien que la valeur traditionnellement retenue
soit de 5%, des lignes directrices récentes suggèrent plutôt d'utiliser 30%.

:: Translations: 9bdd102: Source Text

Measurements:

:: Translations: 9bdd102: Translation

Mesures:

:: Translations: a3c6c52: Source Text

Censored

:: Translations: a3c6c52: Translation

Censuré

:: Translations: f6e929e: Source Text

Tool 1 was developped by the Industrial Hygiene team of the Department of
Environmental and Occupational Health at the %s of the %s.

:: Translations: f6e929e: Translation

Tool 1 a été développé par l'équipe d'hygiène industrielle du Département de
santé environnementale et santé au travail de l'%s de l'%s.

:: Translations: 8785301: Source Text

Critical Percentile:

:: Translations: 8785301: Translation

Percentile critique:

:: Translations: 3d4f8d5: Source Text

Arithmetic Standard Deviation

:: Translations: 3d4f8d5: Translation

Écart-type arithmétique

:: Translations: b7b4f0b: Source Text

Measurement Type

:: Translations: b7b4f0b: Translation

Type de mesure

:: Translations: e9989ce: Source Text

It is as follows.

:: Translations: e9989ce: Translation

Elle se présente comme suit.

:: Translations: a0028fe: Source Text

Express mode shows a curated subset of results in a single Statistical
Inference panel. It is the default mode.

:: Translations: a0028fe: Translation

Le mode Express affiche un sous-ensemble de résultats sélectionnés dans un seul
panneau d'inférence statistique. Il s'agit du mode par défaut.

:: Translations: 70d45be: Source Text

Language

:: Translations: 70d45be: Translation

Langue

:: Translations: 27c579f: Source Text

This plot shows the estimated exposure distribution when assuming 250 exposure
measurements have been collected. If the measurements represent 8-hour TWA
(Time-Weighted Average) values, this approximately represents a full year of
exposure. The OEL is shown as a red line.

:: Translations: 27c579f: Translation

Ce graphique montre la distribution estimée de l'exposition en supposant que
250 mesures d'exposition ont été collectées. Si les mesures représentaient des
valeurs pondérées sur 8 heures, cela représente approximativement une année
complète d'exposition. La VLE est représentée par une ligne rouge.

:: Translations: 481daf9: Source Text

Tool 1 is an open-source and free-to-use web application that facilitates the
interpretation of industrial hygiene measurements, particularly in assessing
compliance with occupational exposure limits (OEL).

:: Translations: 481daf9: Translation

Tool 1 est une application web libre et gratuite qui facilite l'interprétation
des mesures d'hygiène industrielle, en particulier pour évaluer leur conformité
par rapport à des valeurs limites d'exposition (VLE).

:: Translations: 9b3e862: Source Text

This plot shows a shaded and darker region corresponding to the maximal
acceptable exceedance. Red flasks outside of it are unacceptable exposures. It
does not take into account estimation uncertainty.

:: Translations: 9b3e862: Translation

Ce graphique montre une région ombrée et plus foncée correspondant au
dépassement maximal acceptable. Les flacons rouges situés en dehors de cette
région correspondent à des expositions inacceptables. Il ne tient pas compte de
l'incertitude de l'estimation.

:: Translations: c77a676: Source Text

Profile

:: Translations: c77a676: Translation

Profil

:: Translations: 6918de6: Source Text

Proportion Censored

:: Translations: 6918de6: Translation

Proportion d'observations censurées

:: Translations: e04262e: Source Text

Choosing either one is a matter of personal preference.

:: Translations: e04262e: Translation

Le choix de l'un ou l'autre est une question de préférence personnelle.

:: Translations: 08b8516: Source Text

The decision scheme to interpret the probability of overexposure (the
overexposure risk, which is the probability that the overexposure criterion is
met) follows the recommendation of the AIHA video series %s (English only).

:: Translations: 08b8516: Translation

Le schéma décisionnel permettant d'interpréter la probabilité de surexposition
(le risque de surexposition, soit la probabilité que le critère de
surexposition soit satisfait) suit la recommandation de la série vidéo « %s »
de l'AIHA (en anglais seulement).

:: Translations: 8cbc334: Source Text

Why is there no shown output initially?

:: Translations: 8cbc334: Translation

Pourquoi n'y a-t-il pas de résultats affichés au départ?

:: Translations: 848dc48: Source Text

Descriptive statistics should not be viewed as useful estimates of the
underlying exposure distribution. Use the Statistical Inference panels for that
purpose. These provide information inferred from Bayesian models.

:: Translations: 848dc48: Translation

Les statistiques descriptives ne doivent pas être considérées comme des
estimations utiles de la distribution sous-jacente de l'exposition. Utilisez
les panneaux d'inférence statistique à cette fin. Ils fournissent des
informations déduites de modèles bayésiens.

:: Translations: 3a55954: Source Text

Toggle the current theme of the interface (light or dark).

:: Translations: 3a55954: Translation

Changez le thème actuel de l'interface (clair ou foncé).

:: Translations: 3883288: Source Text

Customize

:: Translations: 3883288: Translation

Personnaliser

:: Translations: 1de8474: Source Text

Concentration

:: Translations: 1de8474: Translation

Concentration

:: Translations: e2b62b1: Source Text

How can I customize the user interface?

:: Translations: e2b62b1: Translation

Comment puis-je personnaliser l'interface utilisateur?

:: Translations: 50da20b: Source Text

European guidelines EN689

:: Translations: 50da20b: Translation

lignes directrices européennes EN689

:: Translations: 5bbca33: Source Text

Geometric Standard Deviation

:: Translations: 5bbca33: Translation

Écart-type géométrique

:: Translations: 5f52075: Source Text

10% < OEL ≤ 50%

:: Translations: 5f52075: Translation

10% < VLE ≤ 50%

:: Translations: e2b0950: Source Text

Depending on the server's current load and the sample's size, you may have to
wait a little while before obtaining results. Waiting times are usually lower
than 30 seconds. Some panels require more computing time and resources.

:: Translations: e2b0950: Translation

En fonction de la charge actuelle du serveur et de la taille de l'échantillon,
il se peut que vous deviez patienter avant d'obtenir des résultats. Les temps
d'attente sont généralement inférieurs à 30 secondes. Certains panels
nécessitent plus de temps de calcul et de ressources.

:: Translations: be94953: Source Text

Use this value to change the background color of the maximal acceptable
exceedance region (maximal acceptable number of exposures that are above the
OEL).

:: Translations: be94953: Translation

Cette valeur permet de modifier la couleur de l'arrière-plan de la région de
dépassement maximal acceptable (nombre maximal d'expositions supérieures à la
VLE).

:: Translations: f73886c: Source Text

The 95%% upper confidence limit is equal to %s.

:: Translations: f73886c: Translation

La limite supérieure pour un niveau de confiance de 95%% est égale à %s.

:: Translations: 6aff6b7: Source Text

Tool 1 uses a Bayesian approach to estimate the parameters of the lognormal
distribution. Doing so offers at least three advantages compared to traditional
(frequentist) methods.

:: Translations: 6aff6b7: Translation

Tool 1 utilise une approche bayésienne pour estimer les paramètres de la
distribution log-normale. Cette approche présente au moins trois avantages par
rapport aux méthodes traditionnelles (fréquentistes).

:: Translations: 9eef958: Source Text

Measurements censored to the left are treated using robust Log-probit
regression on order statistics. The algorithm used is derived from %s (itself
derived from the work of %s).

:: Translations: 9eef958: Translation

Les mesures censurées à gauche sont traitées à l'aide d'une régression
log-probit robuste sur les statistiques d'ordre. L'algorithme utilisé est
dérivé de %s (lui-même dérivé du travail de %s).

:: Translations: ed8d758: Source Text

Are there other educational resources about industrial hygiene statistics?

:: Translations: ed8d758: Translation

Y-t-il d'autres ressources pédagogiques sur les statistiques d'hygiène
industrielle?

:: Translations: fc5b077: Source Text

OEL outside of graphical limits.

:: Translations: fc5b077: Translation

VLE en dehors des limites du graphique.

:: Translations: 4e2a12c: Source Text

The probability that this criterion is met is equal to %s.

:: Translations: 4e2a12c: Translation

La probabilité que ce critère soit satisfait est égale à %s.

:: Translations: c2bb46d: Source Text

It naturally integrates the treatment of non-detects.

:: Translations: c2bb46d: Translation

Le traitement des valeurs non-détectées est intrinsèque au modèle.

:: Translations: d2a9835: Source Text

No outputs are shown until calculation parameters are submitted. Some static
elements, such as text and icons, are pre-rendered for optimization purposes.

:: Translations: d2a9835: Translation

Aucun résultat n'est affiché tant que les paramètres de calcul n'ont pas été
soumis. Certains éléments statiques, tels que le texte et les icônes, sont
pré-rendus et affichés dès le départ à des fins d'optimisation.

:: Translations: c165d34: Source Text

1% < OEL ≤ 10%

:: Translations: c165d34: Translation

1% < VLE ≤ 10%

:: Translations: cd84e16: Source Text

Locate the Calculation Parameters sidebar on the left and follow these steps.

:: Translations: cd84e16: Translation

Localisez la barre latérale Paramètres de calcul sur la gauche et suivez les
étapes suivantes.

:: Translations: 04a1dc2: Source Text

Use this value to change the color of exposures that are below the OEL.

:: Translations: 04a1dc2: Translation

Cette valeur permet de modifier la couleur des expositions inférieures à la
VLE.

:: Translations: 0ff7e09: Source Text

Descriptive Statistics

:: Translations: 0ff7e09: Translation

Statistiques descriptives

:: Translations: 23eb033: Source Text

Critical Percentile Category

:: Translations: 23eb033: Translation

Catégorie de percentile critique

:: Translations: 8f7f102: Source Text

Quantile-Quantile Plot

:: Translations: 8f7f102: Translation

Graphique quantile-quantile

:: Translations: 6db5beb: Source Text

50% < OEL ≤ 100%

:: Translations: 6db5beb: Translation

50% < VLE ≤ 100%

:: Translations: 2348472: Source Text

Single plot (no uncertainty)

:: Translations: 2348472: Translation

Graphique unique (sans d'incertitude)

:: Translations: 0a5c356: Source Text

No results are shown in the right panels until the inputs are submitted, or the
current mode is updated.

:: Translations: 0a5c356: Translation

Aucun résultat n'est affiché dans les panneaux de droite tant que les données
n'ont pas été soumises ou que le mode actuel n'a pas été mis à jour.

:: Translations: e510a31: Source Text

The point estimate of the %s percentile is equal to %s.

:: Translations: e510a31: Translation

L'estimation ponctuelle du %s percentile est égale à %s.

:: Translations: dbb0a02: Source Text

Always put a leading zero before decimals for numbers strictly smaller than
one. Always use a dot for decimals. Do not use a separator for thousands.

:: Translations: dbb0a02: Translation

Les décimales doivent toujours être précédées d'un zéro pour les nombres
strictement inférieurs à un. Utilisez toujours un point pour les décimales.
N'utilisez pas de séparateur pour les milliers.

:: Translations: 690c3dc: Source Text

Percentile Category

:: Translations: 690c3dc: Translation

Catégorie de percentile

:: Translations: ea57967: Source Text

Exceedance Fraction Threshold:

:: Translations: ea57967: Translation

Seuil de la fraction de dépassement:

:: Translations: f69c2db: Source Text

Estimates

:: Translations: f69c2db: Translation

Estimations

:: Translations: 798b335: Source Text

Credible Interval Probability:

:: Translations: 798b335: Translation

Probabilité des intervalles de crédibilité:

:: Translations: e279776: Source Text

Use this value to assess overexposure. It must have the same unit as the
measurement data.

:: Translations: e279776: Translation

Utilisez cette valeur pour évaluer la surexposition. Elle doit avoir les mêmes
unités que les données de mesures.

:: Translations: b69a61b: Source Text

Tool 1 offers two modes controlling how much information is displayed to the
user.

:: Translations: b69a61b: Translation

Tool 1 offre deux modes de contrôle de la quantité d'informations affichées à
l'utilisateur.

:: Translations: 6135ed1: Source Text

This plot shows the estimated exposure distribution when assuming 250 exposure
measurements have been collected. If the measurements represent 8-hour TWA
(Time-Weighted Average) values, this approximately represents a full year of
exposure. The OEL is shown as a dotted red line and the point estimate of the
arithmetic mean as a continuous green line.

:: Translations: 6135ed1: Translation

Ce graphique montre la distribution estimée de l'exposition en supposant que
250 mesures de l'exposition ont été collectées. Si les mesures représentaient
des valeurs pondérées sur 8 heures, cela représente approximativement une année
complète d'exposition. La VLE est représentée par une ligne rouge en pointillés
et l'estimation ponctuelle de la moyenne arithmétique par une ligne verte
continue.

:: Translations: c0390ed: Source Text

The decision scheme adopted for the Express mode of Tool 1 was elaborated
during the creation of the AIHA video series %s (English only). In that scheme,
reaching 95%% is ideal and yields an acceptable situation. Not reaching 95%%
confidence but reaching 70%% confidence makes the situation tolerable. Not
reaching 70%% confidence that there is no overexposure makes the situation
problematic.

:: Translations: c0390ed: Translation

Le schéma décisionnel adopté pour le mode Express de Tool 1 a été élaboré lors
de la création de la série de vidéos AIHA « %s » (en anglais uniquement). Dans
ce schéma, atteindre 95%% est idéal et donne une situation acceptable. Ne pas
atteindre 95%% de confiance mais atteindre 70%% de confiance rend la situation
tolérable. Le fait de ne pas atteindre 70%% de confiance en l'absence de
surexposition rend la situation problématique.

:: Translations: 62fc968: Source Text

Percentile

:: Translations: 62fc968: Translation

percentile

:: Translations: 86f03e3: Source Text

Yes. Each plot may be expanded to a full-screen size. Hover over it and click
on the Expand button on the bottom right.

:: Translations: 86f03e3: Translation

Oui. Chaque graphique peut être agrandi en plein écran. Survolez-le et cliquez
sur le bouton « Expand » en bas à droite.

:: Translations: 8e3c26e: Source Text

Enter other parameters. Some are specific to certain panels and are hidden.
They are only shown when their corresponding Statistical Inference panel is
chosen.

:: Translations: 8e3c26e: Translation

Entrez les autres paramètres requis. Certains sont spécifiques à certains
panneaux et sont cachés. Ils ne sont affichés que lorsque le panneau
d'inférence statistique correspondant est choisi.

:: Translations: e200a41: Source Text

This plot illustrates the proportion of exposures that would be above the OEL
in a fictional sample of one hundred measurements. Each flask represents an
exposure value. Those that are above the OEL are colored in red. This can be
changed according to your needs using the sidebar on the right. Four variants
of the Exceedance Plot are available.

:: Translations: e200a41: Translation

Ce graphique illustre la proportion d'expositions qui seraient supérieures à la
VLE dans un échantillon fictif de cent mesures. Chaque flacon représente une
valeur d'exposition. Ceux qui sont supérieurs à la limite d'exposition sont
colorés en rouge. Cette couleur peut être modifiée en fonction de vos besoins à
l'aide de la barre latérale de droite. Quatre variantes du graphique de la
fraction de dépassement sont disponibles.

:: Translations: 962996f: Source Text

Its resulting probabilistic statements are easier to convey to stakeholders.

:: Translations: 962996f: Translation

Les conclusions probabilistes qui en résultent sont plus faciles à communiquer
aux parties prenantes.

:: Translations: 9e15647: Source Text

Dutch-British guidelines

:: Translations: 9e15647: Translation

lignes directrices néerlando-britanniques

:: Translations: ebaaa0c: Source Text

This plot shows the probability distribution of the uncertainty around the %s
percentile. It shows the probability that its true value is (1) below 1%% of
the OEL, (2) between 1%% and 10%% of the OEL, (3) between 10%% and 50%% of the
OEL, (4) between 50%% and 100%% of the OEL, and (5) greater than the OEL. This
is based on the classification adopted by AIHA. The red column represents the
probability of an overexposure. The latter should be lower than the threshold
(black dashed line).

:: Translations: ebaaa0c: Translation

Ce graphique montre la distribution de probabilité de l'incertitude autour du
%s percentile. Il montre la probabilité que sa valeur réelle soit (1)
inférieure à 1%% de la VLE, (2) comprise entre 1%% et 10%% de la VLE, (3)
comprise entre 10%% et 50%% de la VLE, (4) comprise entre 50%% et 100%% de la
VLE, et (5) supérieure à la VLE. Cette classification est basée sur celle
adoptée par l'AIHA. La colonne rouge représente la probabilité de
surexposition. Celle-ci doit être inférieure au seuil (ligne noire en
pointillés).

:: Translations: aeaec6e: Source Text

Wait for the server to perform the calculations. All results will be shown once
they are ready.

:: Translations: aeaec6e: Translation

Patientez pendant que le serveur effectue les calculs. Tous les résultats
seront affichés dès qu'ils seront prêts.

:: Translations: 0660bde: Source Text

Methodology

:: Translations: 0660bde: Translation

Méthodologie

:: Translations: 9797b53: Source Text

Tool 1 assumes that the measurements represent a random sample drawn from the
underlying distribution of exposures within the sampled context. In other
words, the data is considered representative of the specific exposure regimen
being assessed.

:: Translations: 9797b53: Translation

Tool 1 suppose que les mesures représentent un échantillon aléatoire tiré de la
distribution sous-jacente des expositions dans le contexte échantillonné. En
d'autres termes, les données sont considérées comme représentatives du régime
d'exposition évalué.

:: Translations: 3710c88: Source Text

Jérôme Lavoué, Lawrence Joseph, Peter Knott, Hugh Davies, France Labrèche,
Frédéric Clerc, Gautier Mater, Tracy Kirkham, %s, Annals of Work Exposures and
Health, Volume 63, Issue 3, April 2019, Pages 267-279.

:: Translations: 3710c88: Translation

Jérôme Lavoué, Lawrence Joseph, Peter Knott, Hugh Davies, France Labrèche,
Frédéric Clerc, Gautier Mater, Tracy Kirkham, %s, Annals of Work Exposures and
Health, Volume 63, Numéro 3, Avril 2019, Pages 267-279.

:: Translations: ffb2d53: Source Text

Box and Whiskers Plot

:: Translations: ffb2d53: Translation

Boîte à moustaches

:: Translations: e42d220: Source Text

See the source code of Tool 1 on GitHub (English only).

:: Translations: e42d220: Translation

Consultez le code source de Tool 1 sur GitHub (en anglais seulement).

:: Translations: 4f7aff7: Source Text

How are censored measurements imputed?

:: Translations: 4f7aff7: Translation

Comment les mesures censurées sont-elles imputées?

:: Translations: 87ae55d: Source Text

The default mode is Tool 1 Express.

:: Translations: 87ae55d: Translation

Le mode par défaut est Tool 1 Express.

:: Translations: 18576cd: Source Text

Tool 1 is available in multiple languages thanks to the following
collaborators, who kindly contributed their time, skills, and expertise to
provide accurate translations. Many thanks to them!

:: Translations: 18576cd: Translation

Tool 1 est disponible en plusieurs langues grâce aux collaborateurs suivants,
qui ont consacré leur temps, leurs compétences et leur expertise pour fournir
des traductions précises. Un grand merci à eux!

:: Translations: 46750b1: Source Text

Changelog

:: Translations: 46750b1: Translation

Modifications

:: Translations: 854081a: Source Text

If the overexposure risk is lower than %s, it is very low. The situation is
well controlled.

:: Translations: 854081a: Translation

Si le risque de surexposition est inférieur à %s, il est très faible. La
situation est bien maîtrisée.

:: Translations: d1394d6: Source Text

The plot on the left shows an acceptable situation for the chosen exceedance
threshold (traditionally 5% above the OEL). The plot on the right shows the
situation estimated by the Bayesian model. It further illustrates the
uncertainty of the estimation with stripped flasks. The number of red plain
flasks represents the best estimate of the number of measurements above the
OEL. The total number of red flasks (either plain or stripped) represents the
maximum plausible number of measurements above the OEL given the uncertainty of
the estimation process (using the upper limit of the underlying credible
interval).

:: Translations: d1394d6: Translation

Le graphique de gauche montre une situation acceptable pour le seuil de
dépassement choisi (traditionnellement 5% au-dessus de la VLE). Le graphique de
droite montre la situation estimée par le modèle bayésien. Il illustre
également l'incertitude de l'estimation avec des flacons rayés. Le nombre total
de flacons rouges pleins représente la meilleure estimation du nombre de
mesures supérieures à la VLE. Le nombre total de flacons rouges (pleins ou
rayés) représente le nombre maximal plausible de mesures supérieures à la VLE
compte tenu de l'incertitude du processus d'estimation (en utilisant la limite
supérieure de l'intervalle de crédibilité sous-jacent).

:: Translations: 67c3cba: Source Text

What is the statistical approach used by Tool 1?

:: Translations: 67c3cba: Translation

Quelle est l'approche statistique utilisée par Tool 1?

:: Translations: 3a47c3b: Source Text

Select a threshold for the probability that this criterion is met, above which
remedial action (or additional sampling) should be required. Equivalently, one
can reason in terms of the degree of confidence that the exposure criterion is
not met: an overexposure risk threshold of at most 30% is equivalent to
reaching at least 70% confidence that there is no overexposure.

:: Translations: 3a47c3b: Translation

Choisissez un seuil pour la probabilité que ce critère soit rempli, au-delà
duquel une action corrective (ou un échantillonnage supplémentaire) devrait
être exigée. De manière équivalente, on peut raisonner en termes de degré de
confiance que le critère d'exposition ne soit pas satisfait: un seuil de risque
de surexposition d'au plus 30% équivaut à atteindre un degré de confiance d'au
moins 70% qu'il n'y ait pas de surexposition.

:: Translations: 5f29b65: Source Text

Tool 1 Express

:: Translations: 5f29b65: Translation

Tool 1 Express

:: Translations: ac24260: Source Text

Overexposure is defined as the exceedance fraction being greater than or equal
to %s.

:: Translations: ac24260: Translation

Le critère de surexposition est défini comme étant la fraction de dépassement
supérieure ou égale à %s.

:: Translations: 466a65e: Source Text

Overexposure Risk Threshold:

:: Translations: 466a65e: Translation

Seuil de risque de surexposition:

:: Translations: 97a777e: Source Text

Quantiles (Standardized Measurements)

:: Translations: 97a777e: Translation

Quantiles (mesures standardisées)

:: Translations: 1b5e945: Source Text

Use square brackets to denote interval censored values (e.g. [20-30]).

:: Translations: 1b5e945: Translation

Utilisez des crochets pour indiquer les valeurs censurées par intervalle (par
exemple [20-30]).

:: Translations: 8cdd8fb: Source Text

Two plots (with uncertainty)

:: Translations: 8cdd8fb: Translation

Deux graphiques (avec incertitude)

:: Translations: da34e30: Source Text

Geometric Mean

:: Translations: da34e30: Translation

Moyenne géométrique

:: Translations: 4a92c81: Source Text

If you notice an error or would like to submit an update, please send an e-mail
to %s. He will gladly submit your case to the appropriate maintainers listed
below.

:: Translations: 4a92c81: Translation

Si vous remarquez une erreur ou si vous souhaitez soumettre une mise à jour,
envoyez un courriel à %s. Il se fera un plaisir de soumettre votre cas aux
mainteneurs appropriés listés ci-dessous.

:: Translations: a2acebe: Source Text

Add a greater than or equal sign before each measurement censored to the right
(e.g. >30.0).

:: Translations: a2acebe: Translation

Ajoutez un signe plus grand ou égal devant chaque mesure censurée à droite (par
exemple, >30.0).

:: Translations: 6f32d93: Source Text

Problematic

:: Translations: 6f32d93: Translation

Problématique

:: Translations: 89fba6b: Source Text

Frequently Asked Questions

:: Translations: 89fba6b: Translation

Questions fréquentes

:: Translations: 0d592d3: Source Text

It allows the inclusion of external information in the measurements (not yet
leveraged).

:: Translations: 0d592d3: Translation

Il permet d'inclure des informations externes dans les mesures (cet avantage
n'est pas encore exploité par Tool 1).

:: Translations: 2c6b20c: Source Text

If the overexposure risk is higher than %s, it is high. The situation requires
remedial action.

:: Translations: 2c6b20c: Translation

Si le risque de surexposition est supérieur à %s, il est élevé. La situation
nécessite une action corrective.

:: Translations: cf880eb: Source Text

The point estimate of the arithmetic mean is equal to %s.

:: Translations: cf880eb: Translation

L'estimation ponctuelle de la moyenne arithmétique est égale à %s.

:: Translations: e92bf46: Source Text

version

:: Translations: e92bf46: Translation

version

:: Translations: e83e3ca: Source Text

In all Statistical Inference panels, non-detects as interpreted as such by the
Bayesian model. The latter natively extracts and uses the corresponding
information. There is no imputation and no creation of arbitrary values. See %s
for an example.

:: Translations: e83e3ca: Translation

Dans tous les panneaux d'inférence statistique, les valeurs non-détectées sont
interprétées comme telles par le modèle bayésien. Ce dernier extrait et utilise
nativement les informations correspondantes. Il n'y a ni imputation, ni
création de valeurs arbitraires. Consultez %s pour un exemple.

:: Translations: 07fb93b: Source Text

problematic

:: Translations: 07fb93b: Translation

problématique

:: Translations: b267cef: Source Text

In accordance with the International System of Units (SI) and what the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) of the United States recommends
(see %s for more information), always put a leading zero before decimals for
numbers strictly smaller than one.

:: Translations: b267cef: Translation

Conformément au Système international d'unités (SI) et aux recommandations du «
National Institute of Standards and Technology » (NIST) des États-Unis
(consultez %s pour plus d'informations), les décimales doivent toujours être
précédées d'un zéro pour les nombres strictement inférieurs à un.

:: Translations: 4af6872: Source Text

Tool 1 Extended

:: Translations: 4af6872: Translation

Tool 1 Étendu

:: Translations: 5f12363: Source Text

How should measurements be formatted?

:: Translations: 5f12363: Translation

Comment les mesures doivent-elles être formatées?

:: Translations: 2576f78: Source Text

Submit inputs by clicking on the green button located below calculation
parameters.

:: Translations: 2576f78: Translation

Soumettez vos données en cliquant sur le bouton vert situé sous les paramètres
de calcul.

:: Translations: ab42808: Source Text

The traditional threshold for the probability of overexposure is 5% (i.e.
reaching 95% confidence that there is no overexposure). More recently,
following foundational work in France around 2010, several institutions have
adopted an overexposure risk threshold of 30% (70% level of confidence).
Discussion about the rationale for the use of 70% confidence (or a 30%
tolerable overexposure risk) can be found in the following scientific paper.

:: Translations: ab42808: Translation

Le seuil traditionnel de probabilité de surexposition est de 5% (soit un niveau
de confiance de 95% qu'il n'y a pas de surexposition). Plus récemment, à la
suite de travaux menés en France vers 2010, plusieurs institutions ont adopté
un seuil de risque de surexposition de 30% (niveau de confiance de 70%). Une
discussion sur la justification de l'utilisation d'un niveau de confiance de
70% (ou d'un risque de surexposition tolérable de 30%) est disponible dans
l'article scientifique suivant.

:: Translations: d111f1a: Source Text

Density Plot

:: Translations: d111f1a: Translation

Densité de probabilité

:: Translations: 4a8e3cf: Source Text

The plot on the left shows an acceptable situation for the chosen exceedance
threshold (traditionally 5% above the OEL). The plot on the right shows the
situation estimated by the Bayesian model. It does not take into account
estimation uncertainty.

:: Translations: 4a8e3cf: Translation

Le graphique de gauche montre une situation acceptable pour le seuil de
dépassement choisi (traditionnellement 5% au-dessus de la VLE). Le graphique de
droite montre la situation estimée par le modèle bayésien. Il ne tient pas
compte de l'incertitude de l'estimation.

:: Translations: 899d691: Source Text

Enter your measurements. Measurements can be pasted from a copied spreadsheet
column.

:: Translations: 899d691: Translation

Saisissez vos mesures. Les mesures peuvent être copiées et collées à partir
d'une colonne de tableur.

:: Translations: 0e99366: Source Text

Arithmetic Mean Category

:: Translations: 0e99366: Translation

Catégorie de la moyenne arithmétique

:: Translations: be1bbe3: Source Text

You may submit bugs, request features, and provide feedback on %s if you have
an account. You may also send an email to %s, the maintainer of Tool 1.

:: Translations: be1bbe3: Translation

Vous pouvez soumettre des bogues, demander des fonctionnalités et fournir une
rétroaction sur %s si vous disposez d'un compte. Vous pouvez également envoyer
un courriel à %s, le responsable de Tool 1.

:: Translations: 84fd2eb: Source Text

Express mode used to be a distinct web application called Tool 1 Express
(Simplified) in earlier versions of Tool 1 and Expostats. The latter was
integrated into Tool 1 in version 5.0.0.

:: Translations: 84fd2eb: Translation

Le mode Express était une application web distincte appelée Tool 1 Express
(Simplified) dans les versions antérieures de Tool 1 et d'Expostats. Cette
dernière a été intégrée à l'outil 1 dans la version 5.0.0.

:: Translations: 8d5cf97: Source Text

Variant:

:: Translations: 8d5cf97: Translation

Variante:

:: Translations: 897e74a: Source Text

Current Sample

:: Translations: 897e74a: Translation

Échantillon actuel

:: Translations: 5518029: Source Text

How can I verify that my measurements were successfully imported?

:: Translations: 5518029: Translation

Comment puis-je vérifier que mes mesures ont été importées avec succès?

:: Translations: f111efa: Source Text

Who currently maintains Tool 1?

:: Translations: f111efa: Translation

Qui assure actuellement la maintenance de Tool 1?

:: Translations: 159e957: Source Text

In the About My Measurements panel, censored measurements are subject to one of
the following procedures.

:: Translations: 159e957: Translation

Dans le panneau À propos de mes mesures, les mesures censurées sont soumises à
l'une des trois procédures suivantes.

:: Translations: c6e0f91: Source Text

Get additional information on Tool 1.

:: Translations: c6e0f91: Translation

Obtenez des informations supplémentaires sur Tool 1.

:: Translations: 5b8a460: Source Text

The point estimate of the geometric standard deviation is equal to %s.

:: Translations: 5b8a460: Translation

L'estimation ponctuelle de l'écart-type géométrique est égale à %s.

:: Translations: 0a99270: Source Text

Critical Percentile

:: Translations: 0a99270: Translation

Percentile critique

:: Translations: 96d547d: Source Text

Maximum

:: Translations: 96d547d: Translation

Maximum

:: Translations: da9cc89: Source Text

Risk Band Plot

:: Translations: da9cc89: Translation

Bandes de risque

:: Translations: 7e63316: Source Text

This plot shows a shaded and darker region corresponding to the maximal
acceptable exceedance. Red symbols outside of it are unacceptable exposures. It
further illustrates the uncertainty of the estimation with stripped flasks. The
number of red plain flasks represents the best estimate of the number of
measurements above the OEL. The total number of red flasks (either plain or
stripped) represents the maximum plausible number of measurements above the OEL
given the uncertainty of the estimation process (using the upper limit of the
underlying credible interval).

:: Translations: 7e63316: Translation

Ce graphique montre une région ombrée et plus foncée correspondant au
dépassement maximal acceptable. Les symboles rouges situés en dehors de cette
région correspondent à des expositions inacceptables. Il illustre également
l'incertitude de l'estimation avec des flacons rayés. Le nombre total de
flacons rouges pleins représente la meilleure estimation du nombre de mesures
supérieures à la VLE. Le nombre total de flacons rouges (pleins ou rayés)
représente le nombre maximal plausible de mesures supérieures à la VLE compte
tenu de l'incertitude du processus d'estimation (en utilisant la limite
supérieure de l'intervalle de crédibilité sous-jacent).

:: Translations: 9670dfb: Source Text

Always use a dot for decimals.

:: Translations: 9670dfb: Translation

Utilisez toujours un point pour les décimales.

:: Translations: c6394ac: Source Text

About My Measurements

:: Translations: c6394ac: Translation

À propos de mes mesures

:: Translations: 025cd9d: Source Text

Two plots (no uncertainty)

:: Translations: 025cd9d: Translation

Deux graphiques (sans incertitude)

:: Translations: 79e5ee7: Source Text

Distribution Parameters

:: Translations: 79e5ee7: Translation

Paramètres de distribution

:: Translations: f10baab: Source Text

Probability

:: Translations: f10baab: Translation

Probabilité

:: Translations: ee91f19: Source Text

Not Censored

:: Translations: ee91f19: Translation

Non censuré

:: Translations: da5e3d2: Source Text

Overexposure is defined as the arithmetic mean being greater than or equal to
the OEL.

:: Translations: da5e3d2: Translation

Le critère de surexposition est défini comme étant la moyenne arithmétique
supérieure ou égale à la VLE.

:: Translations: 1708b36: Source Text

The measurements are scattered around the x-axis middle point. The box (outer
horizontal lines) represents the distance between the %s and %s percentiles.
The whiskers (vertical lines) represent the distance between the %s and %s
percentiles. The inner black horizontal line is the median.

:: Translations: 1708b36: Translation

Les mesures sont dispersées autour du point central de l'axe des x. La boîte
(lignes horizontales extérieures) représente la distance entre les %s et %s
percentiles. Les moustaches (lignes verticales) représentent la distance entre
les %s et %s percentiles. La ligne horizontale noire intérieure est la médiane.

:: Translations: 7385e52: Source Text

The rationale proposed by Expostats for decision-making when interpreting
industrial hygiene exposure data is described in the following accompanying
paper.

:: Translations: 7385e52: Translation

La logique proposée par Expostats pour la prise de décision lors de
l'interprétation des données d'exposition en hygiène industrielle est décrite
dans cet article scientifique.

:: Translations: 815a98d: Source Text

Use the About My Measurements panel. It provides descriptive statistics, a
quantile-quantile plot, and a box and whiskers plot that can be used to ensure
that measurements were parsed as expected.

:: Translations: 815a98d: Translation

Utilisez le panneau À propos de mes mesures. Il fournit des statistiques
descriptives, un graphique quantile-quantile et un graphique boîte à moustaches
qui peuvent être utilisés pour s'assurer que les mesures ont été importées et
analysées comme prévu.

:: Translations: d257a4e: Source Text

≤ 1% OEL

:: Translations: d257a4e: Translation

≤ 1% VLE

:: Translations: fc0cbd8: Source Text

Tolerable

:: Translations: fc0cbd8: Translation

Tolérable

:: Translations: 2bbf9dd: Source Text

How can I submit bugs or provide feedback?

:: Translations: 2bbf9dd: Translation

Comment puis-je soumettre des bogues ou des commentaires?

:: Translations: 68c086f: Source Text

The measurement dataset. There must be one value per line. Values can be
censored to the left (<), to the right (>), or interval censored ([X-Y]). For
more information, see the Calculation Parameters section in Frequently Asked
Questions (FAQ) above.

:: Translations: 68c086f: Translation

Les données de mesure. Il ne doit y avoir qu'une valeur par ligne. Les valeurs
peuvent être censurées à gauche (<), à droite (>) ou par intervalle ([X-Y]).
Pour plus d'informations, consultez la section Paramètres de calcul dans les
Questions Fréquentes ci-dessus.

:: Translations: 463c845: Source Text

This plot shows the probability density function of the estimated distribution
of exposures. The OEL is shown as a red line. The exceedance fraction is the
area under the curve beyond the OEL value.

:: Translations: 463c845: Translation

Ce graphique montre la fonction de densité de probabilité de la distribution
estimée des expositions. La VLE est représentée par une ligne rouge. La
fraction de dépassement est l'aire sous la courbe au-delà de la valeur de la
VLE.

:: Translations: f9b43e3: Source Text

What is the rationale for the proposed risk assessment framework?

:: Translations: f9b43e3: Translation

Quelle est la logique sous-tendant le cadre d'évaluation des risques?

:: Translations: a5a2911: Source Text

Exceedance Fraction

:: Translations: a5a2911: Translation

Fraction de dépassement

:: Translations: 7be717b: Source Text

Made with %s by %s.

:: Translations: 7be717b: Translation

Fait avec %s par %s.

:: Translations: 8dd7020: Source Text

This risk meter shows the probability of the exposure being too high when
compared to the OEL. The green region indicates an acceptable exposure, the
yellow region a tolerable exposure, and the red region a problematic exposure.

:: Translations: 8dd7020: Translation

Cet indicateur de risque montre la probabilité que l'exposition soit trop
élevée par rapport à la VLE. La zone verte indique une exposition acceptable,
la zone jaune une exposition tolérable et la zone rouge une exposition
problématique.

:: Translations: 1a0644e: Source Text

Measurements censored to the right are imputed as 9/4 of the censoring point.

:: Translations: 1a0644e: Translation

Les mesures censurées à droite sont imputées à 9/4 du point de censure.

:: Translations: b740be6: Source Text

Do not use a separator for thousands.

:: Translations: b740be6: Translation

N'utilisez pas de séparateur pour les milliers.

:: Translations: 603143d: Source Text

The probability that this criterion is met should be lower than %s.

:: Translations: 603143d: Translation

La probabilité que ce critère soit satisfait doit être inférieure à %s.

:: Translations: ceefbab: Source Text

Density

:: Translations: ceefbab: Translation

Densité

:: Translations: fe0789f: Source Text

Who translated Tool 1?

:: Translations: fe0789f: Translation

Qui a traduit Tool 1?

:: Translations: a2334d7: Source Text

Backgrounds

:: Translations: a2334d7: Translation

Arrière-plans

:: Translations: c810b50: Source Text

Use this value to modify the OEL. The value used in subsequent calculations is
the product of the OEL (see above) and this factor. It can be used to determine
a protection factor for respiratory protection.

:: Translations: c810b50: Translation

Utilisez cette valeur pour modifier la VLE. La valeur utilisée dans les calculs
ultérieurs est le produit de la VLE (voir ci-dessus) et de ce facteur. Il peut
être utilisé pour déterminer un facteur de protection pour la protection
respiratoire.

:: Translations: 3e0b7d6: Source Text

Minimum

:: Translations: 3e0b7d6: Translation

Minimum

:: Translations: 12bad1c: Source Text

You may bookmark your preferred settings by passing them as query parameters
(see the current URL displayed by your web browser for the current web page).
Values must be valid. Otherwise, they are automatically replaced by default
values.

:: Translations: 12bad1c: Translation

Vous pouvez conserver vos paramètres d'interface préférés en les passant en
tant que paramètres de requête (voir l'URL actuelle affichée par votre
navigateur web pour la page web actuelle). Les valeurs doivent être valides.
Dans le cas contraire, elles sont automatiquement remplacées par les valeurs
par défaut.

:: Translations: af6561e: Source Text

(English only)

:: Translations: af6561e: Translation

(en anglais seulement)

:: Translations: 5998348: Source Text

OEL Multiplier:

:: Translations: 5998348: Translation

Multiplicateur de la VLE:

:: Translations: 5540a94: Source Text

This plot shows the estimated exposure distribution when assuming 250 exposure
measurements have been collected. If the measurements represent 8-hour TWA
(Time-Weighted Average) values, this approximately represents a full year of
exposure. The OEL is shown as a dotted red line and the point estimate of the
selected percentile as a continuous blue line.

:: Translations: 5540a94: Translation

Ce graphique montre la distribution estimée de l'exposition en supposant que
250 mesures de l'exposition ont été collectées. Si les mesures représentaient
des valeurs pondérées sur 8 heures, cela représente approximativement une année
complète d'exposition. La VLE est représentée par une ligne rouge en pointillés
et l'estimation ponctuelle du percentile sélectionné par une ligne bleue
continue.
